PROFESSOR: Jose Eirin-Lopez
SOURCE: https://www.professors.directory/rate/jose-m-eirin-lopez_florida-international-university

Dr. Lopez is great.  Like he said himself, he is clear when it comes to his grading.  I took his Epigenetics course and it was very interesting.  Our quizzes were a bit difficult but his tests were not so bad.  Other classes that I took under him before is Genetics and Evolution.  I have gotten A's in all of his classes.  I will recommend him for any class he teaches.

Prof. Jose is awesome and understanding!  He gives two discussion boards and two exams.  He also gives pre-quiz, post-quiz, and iClickers every class.  Everything's doable as long as you study the ppt!  I was very grateful to have him!

Prof. Jose deserves a 100%!  He's really the best!  His class averages were high as well.

Prof. Jose really set my expectations high!  He's very caring and he really makes sure that we all succeed.  He clearly knows his stuff and he has a straightforward grading!

Surprisingly, these ratings are very unhelpful.  However, I can say that Professor Eirin-Lopez, is incredible so far.   Don't let the overall rating that you see on the page misguide you.  He's amazing.   He made the lectures interesting, lots of iclickers and is very approachable.  Also, he tries to make the content easy to understand as well.  I didn't think I liked evolution, but now I do.

Doctor Eirin-Lopez is the coolest nerd at Florida International University.  He's relaxed, but he expects you to work.  He gives interesting newer topics.  Epigenetics is based on attendance, so make sure you attend the class.  Multiple class assignments which is 50% of your grade.  Also, there were two exams based on lectures.      There's no homework.   I suggest you read before class.  Overall, this is a great pre-med bio elective class.

Professors Directory is the largest database of university professors in the world.

---

PROFESSOR: George O'Brien
SOURCE: https://www.professors.directory/rate/george-obrien_florida-international-university

Faculty at Florida International UniversityHigher EducationGeorgeO'BrienMiami/Fort Lauderdale AreaProfessional Experience: over 40 years in science education: research, teaching, and service (MA, PA, FL, IA, Brazil, Botswana, Congo (Zaire), Middle East)Goals: International/National reform in science education (P-20+), Pre-service and In-service Science Teacher Education, Sustainability education, Environmental education, Habits of Mind (HOM) (K-20+)Specialties: Research: teacher education, community development, constructivist learning and teaching, teaching to diverse populations, science learning, environmental education, sustainability education, STEM education, HOM

Assistant Professor, Science EducationCoordinator, NSF Program and Director PA State Grant ProgramPartner, Pittsburgh Public Schools

Book Chapter in Stratton, S., Hagevik, R., Feldman, A., and Bloom, M. (Eds.). Educating Science Teachers for Sustainability.

Book Chapter in Stratton, S., Hagevik, R., Feldman, A., and Bloom, M. (Eds.). Educating Science Teachers for Sustainability.

Professors Directory is the largest database of university professors in the world.

---

PROFESSOR: Harry Rhea
SOURCE: https://www.professors.directory/rate/harry-m-rhea_florida-international-university

Intelligence OfficerMilitaryHarryRheaGreater Philadelphia AreaHarry M Rhea is an Associate Professor of Criminal Justice and Law at Rutgers University, Camden Campus.  He was previously an Assistant Professor of Law in the College of Law at Florida International University. He was also the Associate Director of the doctoral program in international crime and justice. He holds two graduate degrees and earned his PhD in law at the Irish Centre for Human Rights, National University of Ireland, Galway, under the supervision of Professor William A Schabas. Dr. Rhea is also a trained international war crimes investigator.Dr. Rhea has developed and implemented numerous international criminal justice courses for several criminal justice programs.  He played a significant role in drafting and presenting the first doctoral degree program in international crime and justice in the United States.  At the invitation of the late M. Cherif Bassiouni, he returned to Siracusa as a lecturer at the 15th Specialization Course in International Criminal Law.  Dr. Rhea is the author of the book, The United States and International Criminal Tribunals. He publishes regularly in international law and criminal justice journals.  Dr. Rhea has served as Editor-in-Chief of the Interdisciplinary Journal of Human Rights Law.  In 2007, he served as Executive Director of the Council for American Students in International Negotiations. He served as a delegation leader at the Sixth Session of the Assembly of States Parties to the International Criminal Court.  He was elected as Vice Chair of the Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences International Section. Prior to his studies, he served in the United States Marine Corps from 1995 to 1999.  His research focuses on United States foreign policy and international criminal justice.

Associate Director of Doctoral Program in International Crime & Justice

Harry worked at Florida International University as a Associate Director of Doctoral Program in International Crime & Justice

Harry worked at Florida International University as a Assistant Professor of Law

Harry worked at Council for American Students in International Negotiations (CASIN) as a Executive Director

Harry worked at Rutgers University - Camden as a Director of Graduate Criminal Justice Program

Harry worked at Rutgers University - Camden as a Associate Professor of Criminal Justice and Law

Harry worked at U.S. Navy Reserve as a Qualified Navy Training Instructor

Harry worked at International Section, Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences as a Chair

Harry worked at International Section, Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences as a Vice Chair

Law (International Criminal Law)Research focused on relationship between United States and international criminal tribunals.

Professors Directory is the largest database of university professors in the world.

---

PROFESSOR: Kevin O'Shea
SOURCE: https://www.professors.directory/rate/kevin-oshea_florida-international-university

He has not taught CHM 2211 in 10 years.  He reads his PowerPoints, he brings his notes to class and goes through them.  He does not do examples.  Our final was the ACS exam (orgo1 and 2).  No idea how to prepare for this final.

Professor O'Shea has not taught this class in almost 10 years and it shows.  He rushes through the PowerPoint presentations, doesn't go over many examples, and doesn't sufficiently prepare his students for exams.  He also doesn't make his own final; he gives the ACS exam that covers both Orgo 1 and 2.  He offers no extra credit opportunities except for a few in-class quizzes.

Prof. O'Shea barely teaches. She simply reads off the powerpoint slides and finish classes early.  He doesn't even prepare you well for the exams.  You will have to self-study if you plan to take this class.  Extra credit questions are challenging as well.  He requires extra credit quizzes at times, sapling HW, 3 exams, and 1 final.  Final isn't created by him but by A.C.S.

Professors Directory is the largest database of university professors in the world.

---

PROFESSOR: Jorge Rodriguez
SOURCE: https://www.professors.directory/rate/jorge-l-rodriguez_florida-international-university

Professor Rodriguez's lectures are quite plain, but he is very accessible and is willing to help you outside of class.   The tests can be difficult, but he gives really helpful test review homework before each test and some of the best formula sheets.   You will pass with a good grade if you do those.

Jorge L Rodriguez is a/an Associate Professor in the Florida International University department at Florida International University

Professors Directory is the largest database of university professors in the world.

---

PROFESSOR: Nathan Dodge
SOURCE: https://www.professors.directory/rate/nathan-e-dodge_florida-international-university

I had Professor Dodge for Senior Seminar online.    I suggest that you purchase  the book!   There are quizzes every week as well as  three case studies.   There is a project, that  is easy.   The only  down side is he is a little bit disorganized, but will help you out!

Professor Dodge's class consists of quizzes, journals, discussions, training in Linkedin, and one final project.  His class was very easy.   He's very calm and hilarious as well.  The final project is a lot of work. On the other hand, it's a group project and, in general, he's not a tough grader.

Nathan E Dodge is a/an Instructor in the Florida International University department at Florida International University

Clinical Instructor  at Florida International UniversityHigher EducationNathanDodge, MBAFort Lauderdale, FloridaNathan Dodge, MBA, is currently a visiting professor for FIU’s Chaplin School of Hospitality & Tourism Management, as well as the communications editor of FIU's Hospitality Review Journal (http://digitalcommons.fiu.edu/hospitalityreview/). Nathan has also worked with the South Beach Wine and Food Festival as a liason between the faculty/staff, students, and event coordinators. Nathan started in the hospitality industry in 1995 joining Alamo Rent-A-Car while in college. Nathan has a passion for the hospitality industry, mainly food and wine and writes a dining blog on the South Florida restaurant scene. www.educatedfoodie.comNathan graduated with both his bachelors of science and master of business administration degrees from Lynn University in Boca Raton, Florida where he studied general business and hospitality management. Nathan has been accepted for the Fall 2016 term to the Ph.D. program at Florida International University where he will continue his studies in Public Affairs. Starting in the Spring of 2014 Nathan began adjunct instructing for undergraduate revenue management online classes and in Fall of 2014 became a visiting professor.Nathan comes from a family of academics; his father and aunt all work in higher education. He has worked for the Chaplin School since November 2011 for the associate dean of academics.

Nathan worked at Florida International University as a Clinical Instructor

Faculty Staff Liaison for South Beach Wine & Food Festival North Venue

--Supervise student employees--Act as risk manager for the University as it pertains to the festival at the North Venue--Monitor Check-in/Check-out of shifts at the festival--Help with performing all duties from set-up to breakdown for all North Venue activities

HFT 1000 - Introduction to Hospitality and Tourism ManagementHFT 4413 - Hospitality Analytics and Revenue ManagementHFT 4295/HFT 4296 - Leadership in the Hospitality and Tourism Industry/Senior SeminarHFT 4323 - Hospitality Facilities and Environmental SystemsHFT 4945 - Internship for Hospitality

- Responsible for call distribution between 4 call centers throughout the U.S., with volume of over 200,000 calls per day- Generated custom management reports to monitor employee productivity- Emergency response team leader

- Generated ad hoc reports using Microsoft Access, Excel, and proprietary database software- Performed periodic database maintenance- Created sales back-casts and forecasts- Prepared budget presentations for the international sales and marketing departments- Developed and delivered training and provided ongoing technical support to Global Sales and Marketing Staff located in 13 countries- Assisted in planning sales convention for over 2,000 travel industry attendees- Managed demand for inter-country car rental transactions- Set prices for international car rentals based on availability, historic trends, and competitor pricing- Created reservation and rental trend models- Reconciled expenses and managed $1M budget for international tour division

- Managed the installation, maintenance and repair of commercial/residential air conditioning and refrigeration equipment, ranging in size from ¼ hp to 120 tons- Provided complete HVAC project management- Responsible for planning and implementing pre and post-hurricane equipment survival strategy and coordinating corresponding services with various accounts- Managed the installation, maintenance and repair of low voltage and line voltage controls ranging from 24 volts to 440 volts 3 phase including 277 volts- Acquired new accounts through networking and cold calling

- Developed and implemented intranet site, converting five different platforms into one interface, allowing user collaboration on projects and created an information center for data retrieval.- Created and automated weekly, monthly, and quarterly reports to track company sales and individual key performance indicators.- Track and coordinate transfer and shipments of all trade show booths and collateral to field sales teams.- Train sales and marketing support team on Deltek database system, from data entry to extraction and analysis.- Track sales and marketing revenues and compare to forecasts.- Implemented search engine optimization on company website.- Conduct ongoing quality assurance checks in company database system.- Responsible for maintaining and updating company social media sites.

- Handled reservation calls for specialty customers including international and corporate travelers, disabled drivers, travel agents and tour operators- Received and responded to customer complaints via phone, e-mail, and mail

Public AdministrationPhD Candidate at the Steven J Green School of International & Public Affairs

Faculty Staff Liaison for South Beach Wine & Food Festival North Venue

--Supervise student employees
--Act as risk manager for the University as it pertains to the festival at the North Venue
--Monitor Check-in/Check-out of shifts at the festival
--Help with performing all duties from set-up to breakdown for all North Venue activities

HFT 1000 - Introduction to Hospitality and Tourism Management
HFT 4413 - Hospitality Analytics and Revenue Management
HFT 4295/HFT 4296 - Leadership in the Hospitality and Tourism Industry/Senior Seminar
HFT 4323 - Hospitality Facilities and Environmental Systems
HFT 4945 - Internship for Hospitality

Student job placement upon graduation is a persistent factor in the assessment of both academic programs and individual student success. This study seeks to explore what strategies and actions can be taken to make hospitality students more competitive in the job search process. By identifying these strategies, attempts can be made to execute them in academic programs, resulting in an increase in student job placement success upon graduation. In-depth interviews with lodging industry recruiters yielded five emergent themes: (a) impression management; (b) interpersonal skills; (c) work experience value; (d) academic isolation; and (e) student accountability. Practical implications and remedies are explored for academics, industry, and the individual student. Further, the strategies offered may be applied to or modified for any student and/or job applicant in any job search situation. Possible benefits exist for academic programs, the individual student, the hospitality industry, and society as a whole.

Professors Directory is the largest database of university professors in the world.

---

PROFESSOR: M. Orjuela Garabito
SOURCE: https://www.professors.directory/rate/m-orjuela-garabito_florida-international-university

M. Orjuela worked at Pontificia Universidad Javeriana as a Teaching Assistant

M. Orjuela worked at ASOCOLFLORES as a Business and Statistical Analyst

M. Orjuela worked at Florida International University as a Teaching Assistant

M. Orjuela worked at Florida International University as a Adjunct Professor

M. Orjuela worked at University of Puerto Rico as a Teaching Assistant

Professors Directory is the largest database of university professors in the world.

---

PROFESSOR: Annette Fromm
SOURCE: https://www.professors.directory/rate/annette-b-fromm_florida-international-university

Professors Directory is the largest database of university professors in the world.